








        Poster Session 2
    














        MEDSI2025 - Proceedings Lund, Sweden


Home
        — Session
        — Classification
        — Authors 
Institutes
        — DOI of Institutes
        — Keywords









WEP


                -
            

                Poster Session 2
            

                17 Sep 2025, 17:00 -
                18:15
            


            Chair: Roberto Appio (MAX IV Laboratory)
        

WEP01A concept improvement design of the girder adjustment system for TPS storage ring161The girder adjustment system of TPS storage ring can fine adjust each girder in 6 axes with 6 kinematic mounting motorized cam movers. The installation of the TPS had demonstrated this design. However, this design is freely mounted with gravity and the 1st natural frequency is less than 30 Hz even with supplement side locking system. Moreover, the motor controller restricts the beginning power output and sometimes the girder will falling when the electromagnetic motor brake is released. A concept improvement design is thus introduced to modify these situations. In this design, a worm gearbox addition can raised the reduction ratio to prevent the falling and inverse kinematic mounting movers with strong springs not only firmly lack the girder to raise the natural frequency but also preserve the motorized algorithm. This paper describes the design in detail.T. Tseng, C. Lin, C. Kuan, C. Huang, D. Huang, H. Wang, K. Hsu, W. Lai  National Synchrotron Radiation Research CenterPaper: WEP01DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP01About:  Received: 10 Sep 2025 — Revised: 16 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 16 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP02As built front ends for the Advance Photon Source MBA upgrade164The Advanced Photon Source (APS) upgrade from double-bend achromats (DBA) to multi-bend achro-mats (MBA) lattice is completed. All storage ring components and front ends were installed between April 2023 to April 2024 and fully commissioned. Some major changes have been made on front ends since our last front end design paper published in MEDSI2018 proceedings. The changes are: 1) Removed clearing magnet from all front ends, 2) Incorporated a Burn-Through-Mask (BTM) as the first fixed mask for all Insertion Device (ID) front ends, 3) Added a new-design diamond window to replace beryllium window for windowed High Heat Load Front End (HHLFE). The upgraded APS front ends will only have three types: a) HHLFE for single beam, b) Canted Front End (CFE) for canted beam, c) Bending Magnet Front End (BMFE) for bending magnet beam. This paper presents the as-built version of all three types of front ends.Y. Jaski  Argonne National LaboratoryF. Westferro, S. Oprondek, M. Erdmann, T. Clute, M. Ramanathan  Advanced Photon SourcePaper: WEP02DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP02About:  Received: 04 Sep 2025 — Revised: 17 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 17 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP04Collaborative design with an integrated CAD model in the PETRA IV project167The PETRA IV project involves the refurbishment of the 2.3 km PETRA accelerator to accommodate almost 40 beamlines. It also includes the conversion and construction of numerous buildings, including a large experimental hall, with first light planned for 2032. To support planning and design with a model-based approach, a comprehensive, integrated CAD model has been set up. The model comprises civil infrastructure, the accelerator, beamlines, and infrastructure systems. Serving as a single source of truth, it supports a diverse project team, including civil and mechanical engineers, beamline scientists, and other stakeholders, each with different technical backgrounds and needs. The fully integrated CAD model is tied to systems engineering processes like requirements management, and supports collaboration across disciplines. Multiple levels of abstraction, a structured hierarchy, and explicit modelling of interfaces help bridge communication gaps. They also reduce redundant work and minimize design errors, all critical for efficient design in collaboration.M. Diercks, B. List, C. Kula, L. Hagge, M. Huening, P. Petersen  Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron DESYPaper: WEP04DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP04About:  Received: 04 Sep 2025 — Revised: 14 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 14 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP05Systematic reduction of lattice complexity through variant minimization170The design of an accelerator system requires translating the lattice into an engineering design model from which the machine can be built, fulfilling the requirements of beam dynamics and from mechanical engineering. To achieve this in an efficient manner, a systematic and manageable iterative design process has been established, which ensures consistency between the lattice and the mechanical model and enables a fast translation of the calculated lattice into a CAD model with correctly placed components within one day through the use of newly developed automation tools. An analysis process of the lattice, a highly modular CAD structure focused on maximal reuse, and strategic variant management together minimize the number of variants necessary. As a result, design, manufacturing and logistics efforts are significantly reduced. This approach establishes a fundamental toolkit. It ensures the traceable integration of physics and engineering requirements throughout the system design process of PETRA IV, the planned next-generation synchrotron light source at DESY.M. Diercks, B. List, C. Kula, L. Hagge, M. Huening  Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron DESYPaper: WEP05DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP05About:  Received: 04 Sep 2025 — Revised: 13 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 14 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP06Compact permanent magnets for small bore accelerators173In synchrotron light sources, electromagnets are used to bend and accelerate electron beams. In 4th generation sources, the electron beam can fit in smaller bore accelerators, allowing the use of permanent magnets, which have many advantages over electromagnets. This poster focuses on the mechanical design, fabrication and testing of two compact permanent magnet systems, which have a 1:5 magnet to metal volume ratio. The first is a dipole-quadrupole magnet assembly, providing a 1 T dipole + 50 T/m quadrupole field to steer the electron. The second is an assembly to adjust a set of tuner and corrector permanent magnets. Regardless of the magnetic forces involved, the tuner magnets can rotate simultaneously and provide a +/- 1 T/m quadrupole field for in situ quadrupole focusing strength adjustments, while corrector magnets can be oriented into a prescribed configuration to compensate for small field errors. Prototypes for the dipole-quadrupole, tuner and corrector holders were manufactured and tested, validating the conceptual design.C. Huschke, A. Allézy, R. Schlueter  Lawrence Berkeley National LaboratoryPaper: WEP06DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP06About:  Received: 04 Sep 2025 — Revised: 12 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 12 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP08Cooled photoelectron shields on the first mirror of the MAX IV soft x-ray beamlinesThe higher brightness of 4th-generation storage rings comes with smaller beam sizes and narrower radiation cones, which in turn can deposit higher power density in the optical components. Maximizing the stability from the source to the sample via the many optical components depends on good mechanics and dealing effectively with the increased heat load. This paper presents the cooled photoelectron shields recently installed at the soft x-ray beamlines at MAX IV. These shields were developed in order to address observed long thermal stabilization times of the first mirrors in the beamline, and the negative impacts of increased photoelectron generation at the mirror surfaces.L. Pickworth  MAX IV LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP10Design and analysis of photon absorbers for Korea-4GSRKorea-4GSR, which is currently being developed in Korea, aims to provide high performance photon beams. In this work, I present the design and thermodynamic simulation of the photon absorption system to be installed in Korea-4GSR. In synchrotron accelerators, managing the intense photon flux generated by bending magnets and insertion devices is very important for maintaining the accelerator's performance. The emitted synchrotron radiation, characterized by its high intensity and broad spectrum, imposes significant thermal and structural demands on accelerator components. Photon absorbers are essential to effectively block excess photons, ensuring stable operation and extending the lifespan of the vacuum components. The storage ring of Korea-4GSR consists of a total of 28 cells. Each cell is planned to be equipped with 5 photon absorbers and 3 photon masks. The synchrotron radiation power per cell is 15.68[kW], of which the photon absorbers and photon masks absorb 11.51[kW], while the vacuum chamber absorbs 3.11[kW]. In the first phase, 9 ID beamlines and one bending magnet beamline are planned to be installed. The crotch absorber has been designed based on the EPU98, which has the largest beam divergence angle and intensity. Extensive research has been conducted to ensure accurate and efficient thermal analysis. Thermal and structural simulations with ANSYS workbench in the worst-case scenario are performed to validate the integrity of the absorber within the acceptable material stress limit. Furthermore, vacuum compatibility is carefully integrated to support long-term operation within the UHV environment.S. Lee, H. Choi, J. Kim, M. Hong, T. Ha  Pohang Accelerator LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP11Design and analysis of the ALS-U Photon Transport LineThe Advanced Light Source Upgrade (ALS-U) will increase the brightness and coherent flux of soft X-rays by a factor of 100 through the use of a multibend achromat lattice. While maintaining a similar number of beamlines, this enhancement introduces significant challenges in packaging photon transport line (PTL) components and managing elevated thermal loads within increasingly constrained spaces. To address these issues, we performed a comprehensive design and analysis of all PTL absorbers and vacuum chambers, using CAD-based ray tracing, geometric evaluations, and numerical simulations to assess beam power deposition under both nominal and missteered conditions. Different thermal analysis strategies were employed for insertion device and bend magnet beamlines to ensure safe operation across varied beam characteristics. This work summarizes the design methodology, analysis results, and the current development status of the ALS-U Photon Transport Line as it advances toward production and testing.T. Cui  Lawrence Berkeley National LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP12Design and development of the beam collimators for CiADS176China initiative Accelerator Driven System (CiADS) consists of a 350m-long linac, a spallation target, a sub-critical reactor and several experimental terminals. The linac will provide protons at the energy of 500MeV with 2.5MW power. In order to keep the uncontrolled beam loss along the beam transport line before entering the target and the reactor less than 1 W/m, a two-stage collimation system with (2+1) periodic lattice has been designed for the linac and target coupling section of CiADS. The detailed design of the beam collimation system is presented, including material selection, structural design, thermal performance analysis, radiation shielding optimization, and remote maintenance. Key technical issues which affect the collimation equipment development are also introduced.H. Niu, H. Cai, H. Jia, Y. Zheng, Y. Pan, Y. Qin, Y. Huang, f. wang  Institute of Modern PhysicsPaper: WEP12DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP12About:  Received: 03 Sep 2025 — Revised: 15 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 16 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP13Design and implementation of an in-vacuum magnetic field measurement system for the TPS nonlinear in-vacuum kicker180The Taiwan Photon Source (TPS) storage ring employs a traditional four-kicker bump off-axis injection scheme, which can introduce perturbations to the stored beam during the injection phase. To address these issues and facilitate stable top-up injection, a Nonlinear In-vacuum Kicker (NIK) has been developed. This innovative device is specifically designed to produce zero magnetic fields in both the horizontal (Bx) and vertical (By) directions at the beam center, while generating a peak By field at the injection point. This field configuration ensures a transparent injection process by minimizing interference with the stored beam during injection. To accurately assess and refine the magnetic field properties of the NIK while avoiding arcing during measurements in atmospheric condition, a specialized in-vacuum magnetic field measurement system has been developed and deployed. This system enables precise mapping of the magnetic field profile over a range of excitation currents. This paper details the system’s mechanical design, fabrication methodology, and presents preliminary results from its implementation.C. Yang, C. Yang, F. Lin, Y. Chu, C. Chan, C. Chang, H. Chen, C. Fann, J. Jan, T. Chung  National Synchrotron Radiation Research CenterPaper: WEP13DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP13About:  Received: 01 Sep 2025 — Revised: 15 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 16 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP14Design and implementation of an optical diagnostic beamline at the BESSY II injection line183In order to improve and extend the current diagnostic system of the third-generation synchrotron radiation source BESSY II, a source point imaging system is being developed. This paper presents the conceptual design, including technical requirements, simulation results, and expectations for the optical transport line and mechanical integration. The design aims to ensure beam quality during operation using synchrotron radiation emitted from the dipole magnet. The primary components of this beamline are a CCD camera and a lens system. To enable precise positioning of the achromat, the system is equipped with a motorized linear feedthrough. The entire setup is designed to operate under high vacuum conditions. A basic existing setup is employed to experimentally validate the simulation results, using the same CCD camera as in the final beamline setup.P. Ahmels, S. Wiese, T. Atkinson  Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin für Materialien und EnergiePaper: WEP14DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP14About:  Received: 02 Sep 2025 — Revised: 15 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 15 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP15Design and implementation of a parallel linkage mechanism with spring assembly for magnetic force compensation in insertion devices186This study presents the design and fabrication of a me-chanical compensation system aimed at neutralizing the magnetic attraction forces inherent in insertion devices (IDs) used in synchrotron radiation facilities. In long IDs, such as those measuring 4 meters in length, multiple compensation modules—typically four—are required to maintain structural stability and magnetic field uniformi-ty. In this work, a single compensation module was de-signed, fabricated, and installed on a test platform to verify the feasibility and mechanical performance of the proposed mechanism. The system integrates a parallel linkage mechanism with a spring assembly consisting of twelve coil springs. The parallel linkage ensures synchronized and stable movement of the magnetic arrays with minimal structural deformation, while the spring assembly provides a counteracting force that balances the increasing magnetic attraction as the ID gap narrows. Although the mechanism was not installed on a working ID, test results demonstrate its effectiveness in reducing structural load and maintaining precise displacement control under simulated magnetic force conditions. This confirms the concept's viability and its potential for improving operational efficiency and safety in future ID applications.C. Kuan, C. Lin, C. Huang, D. Huang, H. Ho, K. Hsu, T. Tseng, W. Lai, Y. Liu  National Synchrotron Radiation Research CenterPaper: WEP15DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP15About:  Received: 11 Jul 2025 — Revised: 15 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 15 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP16Mechanical design of the in-vacuum tapered undulator at Taiwan Photon Source190Synchrotron light sources commonly provide users with two types of insertion devices for experiments in biology, medicine, and other fields: in-vacuum undulators (IU) with short period lengths for medium-energy photon sources and cryogenic permanent magnet undulators (CPMU) for higher photon energy. The strong magnetic field generates significant forces on the insertion device magnets, leading to structural deformation and ultimately degrading the magnetic field quality. This paper presents the design and measurement methods of an in-vacuum tapered undulator, analyzes the simulation and measurement results of its structural deformation, and introduces how a flexible structure can be used to establish nonlinear magnetic force compensation to improve system performanceW. Lai, C. Kuan, K. Hsu  National Synchrotron Radiation Research CenterPaper: WEP16DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP16About:  Received: 18 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 14 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP17Design of a damping wiggler at SPring-8-II as a high-energy X-ray source193SPring-8 will be upgraded to SPring-8-II, a fourth-generation synchrotron with a multi-bend achromat lattice, by 2028. The beam energy will be reduced from 8 to 6 GeV, substantially lowering emittance. To further reduce the emittance, a damping wiggler is planned for installation in a 30 m straight section. High-energy X-ray above 100 keV are in demand for industrial use, but lowering the beam energy reduces photon flux in this range. A damping wiggler can enhance this flux. We therefore designed the wiggler not only for emittance reduction but also as a high-energy X-ray source. The wiggler will be installed in a straight section with five drift spaces, each about 4 m long, to accommodate the wiggler, masks and related components. Its parameters—unit number, period length, gap and total length—were optimized to achieve low emittance, high photon flux and reduced heat load on absorbers. To handle radiation up to 75 kW and 800 W/mm² over a wide solid angle, the mask aperture was designed to limit angular spread and reduce the heat load on the absorber at the downstream bending magnet chamber. This study presents the optimized wiggler design and power density evaluation at the mask.K. Tsubota, H. Ohashi, S. Shimizu, S. Takahashi  Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research InstituteT. Tanaka  RIKEN SPring-8 CenterPaper: WEP17DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP17About:  Received: 10 Sep 2025 — Revised: 13 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 13 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP18Design of a mirror chamber for the FL24 with 5-axis precision adjustment and additional fast pneumatic movement out of the beamFor the new pulse-length-preserving monochromator beamline FL23 at FLASH2, the beam is horizontally decoupled from the straight line at FL24 by means of a non-planar mirror. The mirror is adjustable in all three rotational degrees of freedom. The bearings for yaw and pitch are mounted outside the vacuum. For the roll movement, the mirror is mounted in two bearings that have a large enough opening so that the beam can also be guided straight past the mirror. In addition, the different layers can be approached by translation along the vertical axis. All drives are outside the vacuum. The horizontal movement can be adjusted with high precision and is also pneumatically driven, allowing rapid movement out of the beam for fast operation of the FL24 beamline.H. Bienert, B. Steffen, E. Plönjes-Palm, G. Brenner, H. Bolat, M. Hesse, M. Sprung  Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron DESYCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP20Design of a stable Double Crystal Monochromator for synchrotron beamlinesPohang Accelerator Laboratory (PAL) has developed various double crystal monochromators (DCMs) using domestic technologies and is currently pursuing a new design focused on enhanced performance and mechanical stability. This study introduces the design and fabrication of a next-generation DCM optimized to minimize thermal deformation under high heat loads and suppress mechanical vibrations for improved beam stability. High thermal conductivity materials and an efficient cooling system were integrated to mitigate thermal effects, while a structurally reinforced design was employed to reduce vibration. The system was validated through thermal and structural simulations, vibration testing, and performance evaluation under actual beamline conditions. The developed DCM demonstrates improved energy stability and positional accuracy, contributing to high-precision synchrotron radiation experiments.S. Kim, S. Kim, J. Kim  Pohang Accelerator LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP22Fabrication challenges and lessons learned in prototyping SPS-II straight section vacuum chambers197The development of a manufacturing plan for the alu-minum straight section vacuum chambers of the Siam Photon Source-II (SPS-II) was undertaken through a multi-stage prototyping program. This work began with the successful reduction of the internal surface roughness (Ra) of domestically produced aluminum extrusions from approximately 19.9 µm to below 0.42 µm by polishing the extrusion die. A dedicated prototype was then used to validate fundamental Ultra-High Vacuum (UHV) processes, confirming the integrity of in-house Tungsten Inert Gas (TIG) welding and establishing a baseline for the chemical cleaning procedure via Photon Stimulated Desorption (PSD) measurements, which showed the cleaning provided an acceptable baseline but requires further optimization. Subsequent full-scale fabrication trials revealed critical lessons. An initial build without a fixture resulted in both significant deformations, confirming the need for mechanical support, and contaminated welds, highlighting the importance of meticulous in-process cleaning. A second trial with a first-generation fixture solved the deformation but caused weld penetration due to obstructed tool access. This iterative development process successfully identified the key challenges of fabrication and has resulted in a de-risked manufacturing methodology, based on an optimized cleaning protocol and a purpose-built fixture, for the final production chambers.T. Phimsen, S. Boonsuya, S. Chitthaisong, O. Seegauncha, S. Sumklang, J. Sukain, W. Woranut, K. Trongklang, O. Utke, P. Sudmuang  Synchrotron Light Research InstituteG. Hsiung  National Synchrotron Radiation Research CenterPaper: WEP22DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP22About:  Received: 05 Sep 2025 — Revised: 15 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 16 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP23Development of high stability mirror systems at HALF201Hefei Advanced Light Source (HALF) is a diffraction-limited light source in the soft X-ray range. It provides a powerful tool for nano-focusing, ultra-high spectral-resolution power experiments and applications. To fully utilize the source characteristics, beamline mirrors and manipulators require high accuracy and stability. In phase I, 10 beamlines will be built, requiring dozens of mirrors with different shapes, sizes, and working conditions to achieve high-fidelity transmission, collimation and focusing, which can be divided into three categories: The first mirror of each beamline, with fixed-shape that needs water cooling, due to absorb high heat load and deflect the beam; The fixed-shape mirror without water cooling for beam transmission, focusing and collimation; The bendable mirrors for KB focusing systems. In this paper, the manipulator for each kind of mirror with high stability is proposed. A universal mirror system with a three-point support structure is developed to hold different manipulators and provide fine-tuning for Height, Roll, and Yaw. Prototype design and preliminary test results are also presented.S. Jiang  University of Science and Technology of China, National Synchrotron Radiation LaboratoryJ. Chen, Q. Wang, S. Wei, X. Du, Y. Peng, Z. Wang  University of Science and Technology of China, National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory, National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory; University of Science and Technology of ChinaPaper: WEP23DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP23About:  Received: 04 Sep 2025 — Revised: 15 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 15 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP24Development of LN₂ cooled permanent magnet undulatorsThis work presents a novel design for a cryogenically cooled permanent magnet undulator (CPMU), advancing compact, high-field insertion devices for synchrotron light source PETRA IV at DESY. Operating at cryogenic temperatures allows significantly smaller gaps and higher fields than conventional undulators. The proposed 4 m long device, the longest of its kind, uses high-performance PrFeB magnets in a hybrid structure. The inner and outer girder design is optimized through mechanical simulations to endure strong magnetic forces while maintaining micrometer tolerances. Forces up to 35 kN are compensated using auxiliary magnets integrated into the inner girder. Adjustable link rods form the critical mechanical connection between girders, enabling fine tuning; they are undergoing cryogenic testing at 77 K to assess performance. Fluid dynamics and thermal simulations of the liquid nitrogen (LN₂) cooling system reveal temperature distributions and gradients along the undulator, crucial for ensuring magnetic field stability and optimal operation in accelerator environments.H. Bolat, A. Schöps, M. Tischer, M. Trunk, P. Vagin  Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron DESYCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP25Development of permanent magnets replacing electromagnets at NSRRC205Integrating permanent magnets as substitutes for large electromagnets offers advantages such as energy savings, space efficiency, and low maintenance. An electromagnetic dipole magnet on the TPS transfer line is proposed to be replaced by a permanent magnet. This permanent magnet will be hybridized with an electrical coil to allow fine tuning of the magnetic field. Additionally, an NMR system is integrated into the magnet to monitor long-term field variations. The magnetic circuit design for the 1m-long permanent magnet has been preliminarily completed. Currently, the prototype-1 magnet with 0.15 m employs adhesive technology to bond small magnetic blocks into larger ones. The magnetic field strength and uniformity of prototype-1 meet the design specifications. NiFe material has also been used for temperature compensation. During the development process, some assembly procedures and mechanical designs were revised. The prototype-2 is currently in production. This paper presents the magnetic circuit design, the mechanism design, the magnet prototype and the field measurement result of the permanent dipole magnet.J. Jan, Y. Hsu, Y. Chu, C. Yang, T. Chung  National Synchrotron Radiation Research CenterPaper: WEP25DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP25About:  Received: 20 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 13 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP26Development of Radial Magic Finger Design for Permanent Magnet Quadrupole209Permanent Magnets (PM) have been widely used in Synchrotron Light Sources for insertion devices and recently for the accelerator multipole magnets. The NSLS-II accelerator upgrade is based on the complex bend lattice that will use combined function permanent magnet-based dipole-Quadrupole (PMQ)*. These PMQ’s need to be characterized and tuned to make sure the required field harmonics can be achieved. The Halbach type design is considered for the PMQs. To achieve the required field quality with the Halbach PMQ, a field harmonic correction method based on assembly of small PM blocks called “Magic fingers” (MF) is developed. This paper presents the radial MF magnetic and mechanical design, the prototype and the correction results.T. Brookbank, F. DePaola, M. Musardo, P. N'gotta, S. Brooks, S. Sharma  Brookhaven National LaboratoryO. Chubar  National Synchrotron Light Source IIPaper: WEP26DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP26About:  Received: 29 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 13 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP27Diamond-II prototype girder testingThis presentation will detail the development and testing of the Diamond-II girder and support system for the Diamond-II storage ring. Key topics include the design choices for the mechanical positioning system, comprehensive vibration test and analysis, alignment, and transport testing. Additionally, the laser tracker survey processes and impact on alignment uncertainty will be discussed. The manual alignment system features a primary overconstrained four-wedge jack system atop a series of base plates each controlling different degrees of freedom, linear encoders are used to feedback relative movements of the girder during the alignment process. A secondary mechanical locking system is included which is intended to improve the overall system stiffness and vibration response. Extensive vibration and alignment test and analyses have been conducted to ensure the system meets the physics requirements for the Diamond-II storage ring and the results of this will be presented.P. Vivian, J. Giles, J. Linde-Cerezo, T. Lundyates, W. Hoffman  Diamond Light SourceCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP28Double crystal bent Laue monochromator: modelling and measurements up to 150 keV213A main application of Laue diffraction in thick bent crystals is on developing high energy/high power monochromators for synchrotron sources. Whereas most of the studies mainly focuses on modelling and simulation of ideal shapes, e.g., cylindrical deformation, this work adds as well a wide set of mechanical and optical measurements performed on 2 mm thickness double bent Laue crystal monochromator currently used at the Biomedical Imaging and Therapy (BMIT) beamline at the Canadian Light Source. Measurements are compared to simulations from tools such as ANSYS and XRT ray-tracing based on Tagaki -Taupin equations. We found real deformed crystal profile is far from ideal cylindrical shape, that the diffracted beam intensity raised 12X due to deformation using an incident white beam. Also, photon flux measurements were performed using a cryogenic radiometer. Measurements have been performed at the 05ID-2 (3.7 T wiggler) and the 05B1-1 (1.35 T bending magnet) BMIT beamlines with energies between 25 keV to 150 keV. Thus, considering the scarcity of experimental data, this work becomes relevant as it presents measurements of a real bent Laue monochromator and compares it to simulations.O. Piminchumo Marinos, D. Chapman  Canadian Light Source Inc., Canadian Light Source (Canada)S. Gasilov  Helmholtz-Zentrum HereonPaper: WEP28DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP28About:  Received: 29 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 13 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP29Elettra 2.0 discrete storage ring photon absorbers216The Elettra 2.0 project is upgrading the Elettra synchrotron radiation facility to 4th generation standards. This paper presents the overall photon absorption strategy adopted in the design, which includes both distributed and localized absorption of emitted photons, focusing on discrete photon absorbers and their geometrical configurations within the storage ring. All discrete photon absorbers will be manufactured entirely from Copper-Chromium-Zirconium alloy (CW106C or CuCr1Zr). The components will be produced using wire electrical discharge machining (EDM) for the main geometries, supplemented by conventional milling, with the integration of the flange knife-edge into the absorber geometry without the need for brazing. Two main absorber families are introduced: transversal photon absorbers, designed to protect vacuum chambers near bending magnets and to serve as initial beam-shaping elements, and axial photon absorbers, which function as transitions between different chamber geometries and protect sensitive components, such as RF contact bellows. The paper also presents the current production status and includes photographs of the first manufactured units.G. Scrimali  Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A.Paper: WEP29DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP29About:  Received: 01 Sep 2025 — Revised: 13 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 13 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP30Enhancing the performance of old X-ray mirrors through surface figure correctionThe X-ray Optics Laboratory at the Pohang Accelerator Laboratory is advancing synchrotron radiation research by enhancing X-ray mirror performance through in-house precision metrology and coating technologies. A thin-film deposition system was developed for coating X-ray mirrors up to 1 meter in length. By precisely controlling the substrate stage speed, the system can correct and modify the surface figure of the mirror. Differential deposition is achieved by continuously adjusting the substrate's movement during coating. The stage control system calculates the dwell time using deconvolution algorithms, based on accurate measurements of the unit coating distribution and the target surface figure. Recently, the lab successfully reduced the figure error of the 5A beamline mirror by a factor of 15, and plans are underway to extend these improvements to other beamlines, including those at PLS-II and XFEL.J. Kim, J. Kim, J. Kim, J. Park, S. Kim, H. Choi, S. Kim, J. Choi, H. Lee, J. Lim  Pohang Accelerator LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP31Flange aperture gap RF contact gasket for Elettra 2.0 storage ring220The fourth-generation X-ray source Elettra 2.0, currently under development, aims to significantly enhance the brilliance and coherence of the emitted light, with high currents and ultra-low emittances as design goals. Fourth generation machines have tight constraints in terms of beam coupling impedance, requiring that the flanged connections along the beam orbit contributes as less as possible to the storage ring impedance budget, either by reducing the flange aperture gaps ideally to zero (zero-gap flanges connections), or by properly shielding the cavities generated (RF contact fingers). Space constraints of Elettra 2.0 limit the usage of conventional RF contact fingers, and the storage ring includes components where zero-gap flanges connections cannot be applied. This paper presents a compact RF contact gasket designed to work within the constraints of Elettra 2.0 chambers, inside the cavity created by the coupling of two CF40 flanges. The geometry is presented, along with its characterization with finite element modeling and RF Impedance calculations. A presentation of prototypes is also included.I. Mrak, G. Scrimali, S. Cleva  Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A.Paper: WEP31DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP31About:  Received: 05 Sep 2025 — Revised: 16 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 16 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP32Improving the sputtered titanium film for the NIK ceramic chamber in TPS224The development of the Nonlinear In-vacuum Kicker (NIK) is one of the key projects of the Taiwan Photon Source (TPS). Efficient conduction of the image current generated by the stored beam requires the deposition of a highly conductive titanium thin film on the inner surface of the NIK ceramic chamber. Based on tests involving the sputtering of a 5.5 μm titanium film onto a 34 cm × 6 cm ceramic substrate, the uniformity of the titanium film was controlled within 5%. The adhesion strength between the titanium film and the ceramic substrate reached 60 MPa, and the electrical resistivity was measured at 7.2 × 10⁻⁵ Ω·cm. This paper presents a detailed overview of the coating system, experimental methodology, and test results.C. Huang, B. Chen, C. Lin, C. Kuan, T. Tseng, W. Lai, Y. Liu  National Synchrotron Radiation Research CenterPaper: WEP32DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP32About:  Received: 29 Jul 2025 — Revised: 13 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 16 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP33Innovative design strategies and development of girders using topology optimization for PETRA IVPrecise magnet alignment and mechanical stability are critical challenges in the design of support structures for the PETRA IV synchrotron radiation facility at DESY. Due to the limitations of the existing tunnel infrastructure, magnets must be pre-aligned on girders with high precision before installation, while the girders themselves must accommodate relative tunnel movement and meet stringent vibration stability requirements. A topology optimization approach was applied to develop lightweight yet stiff girder structures with high eigenfrequencies, balancing structural performance and manufacturing efficiency. A full-scale demonstrator was successfully cast, validating the feasibility of the approach. The results highlight the advantages of topology-optimized casting in terms of cost, tolerance control, and design agility, enabling faster iteration and integration of changes during the development cycle.N. Koldrack  Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron DESYCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP34KB mirror mechanics innovations for optimal nanobeam focus and stability at the ESRF ID01 beamlineThe highly coherent beam delivered by the Extremely Brilliant Source allows improving beam quality and size on long nano-beamlines. To benefit from this upgrade, the focusing mirrors of the Kirkpatrick-Baez (KB) and its mechanics were redesigned to improve the nano-beam stability in the versatile experimental setup of ID01 beamline. The optical design to get a 50nmx50nm beam lead to two fixed focused elliptical mirrors with a multilayer coating and a 50nrad slope error with a working distance of 37mm. In this context, there are two crucial aspects for the mechanics: one is to be able to hold the optics without degrading the shape of the mirrors; the other is to have a very precise alignment and adjustment of the opto-mechanical equipment at the beamline. I will describe the mechanical design used to achieve these two objectives, the laboratory measurements and the results obtained on the beamline.C. Clavel  European Synchrotron Radiation FacilityCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP36LiDAR-based 3D scanning for accurate infrastructure modeling at MAX IVThis project explores the use of advanced 3D scanning technology at MAX IV, focusing on the Leica RTC360 scanner to capture high-precision scans of accelerator tunnels and restricted beamline areas. Known for its rapid scanning and accuracy (1.9mm at 10m), the RTC360 generates detailed 3D models of these complex environments. The goal is to produce accurate digital representations to aid in maintenance, structural assessments, and long-term planning. To improve scan data positioning, it can be best-fitted to a reference network of points measured with laser tracker instrumentation, ensuring precise alignment reference. This integration enables overlaying scan data with CAD models, linking the physical environment to its design representation. Using the RTC360's LiDAR technology, the project ensures efficient data capture in hard-to-reach areas, supporting enhanced analysis and decision-making. The resulting 3D models can improve workflow and provide stakeholders with valuable insights into the condition of MAX IV infrastructure, supporting current and future operational needs.A. Torrente, B. Afzali-Far, G. Felcsuti, K. Zhou  MAX IV LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP37Longitudinal gradient bending magnet(LGBM) permanent magnet for Korea-4GSR ProjectA 4th generation storage ring based light source is being developed in Korea since 2021. It features &LT60 pm rad intrinsic beam emittance, about 800 m circumference, 4 GeV e-beam energy, full energy booster injection, and more than 40 beamlines which includes more than 24 insertion device (ID) beamlines. To optimize the beam emittances, longitudinal gradient bending magnet is applied in the storage ring design. The initial design was using conventional electrical excitation, but the design is changed to use permanent magnet (Sm2Co17) to minimize energy costs. In this report, the physics design and prototyping is described including field integral, field tuning, and temperature compensation scheme.Y. Jung, B. Kim, D. Kim, G. Hahn, I. Chun, W. Lee  Pohang Accelerator LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP38Longitudinally tuned cooling conductivity for passive preservation of xray mirror optical figure under variable shape and heat loads requirementsWiggler sources thermally challenge mirrors particularly when multiple reflection angles are required for variable energy cutoff. A newly installed vertically deflecting collimating mirror at SLAC-SSRL utilizes longitudinally variable conductivity between the cooling water and the mirror, strategically remapping the Gaussian heat bump to produce a spherical thermal deformation that can more effectively be eliminated by adjusting the end moments. By simultaneously optimizing the contributions of both static conductivity and adjustable bending, sub-microradian figure error was achieved. The design utilized a bounded value least squares method incorporating the effects of incremental conductivity changes to each segment of the cooling interface and end moments at each of three required thermal conditions while weighting the local error by the useful reflected flux contribution. Used iteratively, this method converged on the optimal geometry of the copper cooling blades conducting heat from the gallium indium filled troughs along either side of the optically active mirror region to the cooling water tubes.M. Church  Stanford Synchrotron Radiation LightsourceCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP40MAX IV photoinjector gun227This paper presents the latest photoinjector gun developed for the Short Pulse Facility (SPF) at MAX IV. The focus is on the mechanical design, which has been optimized around a simulated RF internal volume to ensure high performance and precision. Key areas of investigation include RF tuning strategies, thermal management via integrated internal cooling channels, and the challenges encountered during manufacturing and assembly, along with the corresponding engineering solutions. Design enhancements introduced throughout development are highlighted to provide insights into technical progress and practical experience. Potential future improvements are also discussed, targeting further optimization of performance, efficiency, and long-term operational reliability.L. Roslund, D. Kumbaro, H. Duarte, J. Andersson, R. Svärd  MAX IV LaboratoryPaper: WEP40DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP40About:  Received: 07 Jul 2025 — Revised: 13 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 13 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP41Mechanical analysis of quadrupole magnets for the 3 GeV storage ring of Siam Photon Source IIQuadrupole magnets for the 3 GeV storage ring of Siam Photon Source II (SPS-II) focus and defocus the electron beam according to the lattice design. This work investigates the impact of fabrication errors on the magnetic field of quadrupole magnets. Magnetic field simulations in Opera-3D show that misalignment and assembly errors lead to unwanted multipole components. Mechanical analysis was performed on two quadrupole magnet structures: Type A, with two removable poles for coil insertion, and Type B, with no removable poles and four symmetric pieces. ANSYS Workbench was used for static structural simulation. The material used is AISI 1006 low-carbon steel. Results showed maximum deformation at the magnet poles in both types. Detailed analysis and comparison with prototype measurements will be discussed to validate the magnet design and simulation for future manufacturing for the SPS-II Project.T. Leetha, P. Numanoy, P. Pruekthaisong, P. Sunwong, S. Prawanta, T. Phimsen  Synchrotron Light Research InstituteCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP42Mechanical design and development status of a Superconducting Wavelength Shifter for Sirius230A cryogen-free Superconducting Wavelength Shifter (SWLS) designed to generate a peak magnetic field of 6.6 T, operating at 5 K, is currently under development for an upcoming hard X-ray beamline of Sirius, the Brazilian synchrotron fourth-generation light source. This work presents an overview of the mechanical development of several key subsystems of the SWLS. It includes the design and fabrication of the clamps for both lateral and central coils, the development of all thermal components responsible for coupling the cold mass to the cryostat cooling stages, and the construction of the base frame that supports the SWLS cold mass. Additionally, the implementation and testing of Kevlar wires used to suspend the base frame are described. The design of the vacuum chamber through which the beam will pass is also presented, along with the tolerance analysis to ensure the 0.5 mm gap between the coils and the vacuum chamber is maintained. The project also considers the reuse of some parts from a decommissioned Superconducting Wiggler previously operated at the UVX. This article summarizes the ongoing mechanical design and development of the SWLS project.G. Rovigatti de Oliveira  Brazilian Synchrotron Light Laboratory, Brazilian Center for Research in Energy and MaterialsW. Evangelista Ricardo, P. Souza, T. Jasso, G. Pilon, M. Rocha, I. Cavassani, P. Martins  Brazilian Center for Research in Energy and MaterialsPaper: WEP42DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP42About:  Received: 04 Sep 2025 — Revised: 15 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 16 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP43Mechanical design and finite element analysis of booster girders for particle accelerators under variable construction environmentsThis study presents a comprehensive engineering design and finite element analysis (FEA) of booster girders, with a focus on their adaptability to diverse construction environments. Booster girders play a pivotal role in maintaining the structural stability and alignment precision of particle accelerators, necessitating robust performance under variable site conditions. A detailed FEA methodology is employed to evaluate the static and dynamic responses of the girders under a range of loading conditions, including seismic forces, which are identified as critical design factors. The simulation results validate the proposed design approach, demonstrating enhanced structural integrity and operational reliability across challenging construction scenarios. This work provides a rigorous design and analysis framework that supports the development of resilient accelerator components, thereby advancing the reliability and scalability of next-generation particle accelerator infrastructures.G. Hong, S. Lee, S. Shin, T. Ha  Pohang Accelerator LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP44Mechanical design of high heat load front-end for IVU beamline at Korea-4GSR233The Korea-4GSR, to be built in Ochang, South Korea by 2030, is a new 4th generation synchrotron radiation facility. It is designed with an electron beam energy of 4 GeV, a stored electron beam current of 400 mA, and an emittance of 62 pm.rad. In Phase I, 10 beamlines will be constructed, five of which will use the IVU24 undulator. When the undulator gap is set to 5 mm, the X-ray source has a total power of 17.95 kW and peak power density of 165 kW/mrad². The High Heat Load Front-End(HHLFE) system is designed to absorb up to 17kW of heat using a fixed mask and a movable mask, ensuring that only the central cone is transmitted to the beamline optical devices. The main materials are GlidCop or CuCrZr, selected for their high thermal conductivity, and the cooling channels are designed with a rectangular cross-section to maximize the heat exchange area for efficient thermal management. In addition, tungsten is applied to precisely shape and effectively absorb the X-ray beam. The structural design of the heat-absorbing devices was determined based on thermal analysis results$*$. This presentation introduces the structural and mechanical design details of the HHLFE.J. Park, H. Choi, J. Kim, K. Kim, S. Kim, Y. Yun  Pohang Accelerator LaboratoryPaper: WEP44DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP44About:  Received: 04 Sep 2025 — Revised: 13 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 13 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP45Mechanical design of the Diamond-II injection striplines236Transparent injection is a key goal of the upgrade of Diamond Light Source to a fourth-generation synchrotron, Diamond-II. This work presents the mechanical design of the Diamond-II K01 straight, which includes three pairs of injection stripline modules, and highlights the following aspects of the design: the general layout (covering the location of the modules, vacuum pumping, and protection from synchrotron radiation); detailed design and assembly of the stripline modules; and lessons learned from the testing of the stripline prototype on the existing machine. The general layout ensures that the modules are optimally positioned to maximize efficiency and minimize interference from synchrotron radiation. The detailed design and assembly process involved rigorous testing and refinement to ensure that each component met the high standards required for operation in a high-energy environment. Lessons learned from the prototype testing provided valuable insights into potential improvements and adjustments needed for the final design, ensuring that the system will perform reliably under operational conditions.V. Zhiltsov, A. Morgan, A. Lueangaramwong, A. Amiri, I. Martin, L. Bobb, M. Cox, N. Warner, R. Fielder, R. Grant, T. Lockwood, W. Tizzano  Diamond Light SourcePaper: WEP45DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP45About:  Received: 05 Sep 2025 — Revised: 11 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 16 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP46Mechanical engineering design of the Diamond-II injection systems240This work presents the mechanical engineering design of the Diamond-II injector, which includes a new low-emittance booster with combined function magnets, modifications to the existing transfer lines and a novel storage ring injection scheme. The latter features two alternative schemes: the first scheme is based on a traditional four-kicker closed bump paired with a novel in-vacuum thin septum, combined with an in-air permanent magnet thick septum. This arrangement will be used for commissioning and initial fill of the ring; the second scheme, used for top-up during user operation, aims to deliver transparent injection and it is based on innovative strip line kickers.W. Tizzano, A. Shahveh, C. Bailey, D. Grenville, I. Martin, M. Cox, S. Ahamad, T. Lockwood, V. Zhiltsov  Diamond Light SourcePaper: WEP46DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP46About:  Received: 04 Sep 2025 — Revised: 11 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 15 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP47Mechanical evaluation and CAD modeling for MAX 4ᵁ: MAXIV storage ring upgrade244MAX 4U is an upgrade project of the MAX IV 3 GeV storage ring, to be realized by the early 2030’s in Lund, Sweden. The goal of the upgrade is to reduce the horizontal electron beam emittance to below 100 pm.rad. A new magnet lattice will be used to achieve this goal. Many different scenarios for different lattices are evaluated from the mechanical engineering aspect to serve as input for the final lattice choice. In this paper, we describe the method used to build CAD-models for the evaluation work and how the components are affected, both mechanical and thermal loads on the vacuum system from the new synchrotron radiation power.K. Åhnberg, A. Andersson, A. Martinez Carboneres, E. Al-Dmour, M. Grabski, P. Tavares  MAX IV LaboratoryPaper: WEP47DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP47About:  Received: 12 Sep 2025 — Revised: 14 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 14 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP48Mechanical structure upgrade of the Pivot KB mirror system for improved vibration and stabilityAt this conference, we introduce an upgraded Kirkpatrick–Baez (KB) mirror system developed by the Pohang Accelerator Laboratory (PAL) for the PLS-II beamline. PAL is also actively involved in designing KB mirrors for the upcoming Korea 4GSR project, aiming to enhance the overall stability and precision of synchrotron beamline optics. To address vibration and axis instability, the KB mirror structure originally designed for PLS-II has undergone major mechanical improvements. Key upgrades include ultra-high vacuum (UHV) actuators, Inconel 718-based cartwheel mechanisms for pitch and yaw axes, and cross-roller guide systems. These enhancements improve structural rigidity, enable precise angular adjustments, and suppress vibration transmission, achieving sub-micron positioning accuracy. The system is now being installed on the PLS-II beamline, with commissioning planned to demonstrate compound-axis control and beam reproducibility. In parallel, research is underway to explore alternative cartwheel materials for further performance optimization. We look forward to presenting the enhanced Pivot KB Mirror and related technologies from PLS-II and Korea 4GSR at this conference.M. Park, G. Lee, S. Kim, S. Kim, J. Park, K. Kim, H. Kim  Pohang Accelerator LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP49Mechanical system of the double-period undulator prototype for SHINE247The Shanghai High repetition rate XFEL and Extreme light facility (SHINE) is under construction and aims at generating X-rays between 0.4 and 25 keV with three FEL beamlines at repetition rates of up to 1 MHz [1-3]. The three FEL beamlines of the SHINE are referred to as the FEL-I, FEL-II, and FEL-III. Shanghai Advanced Research Institute(SARI) will manufacture 14 double-period undulators for the FEL-II. The double-period undulator is equipped with two rows of magnetic array of different period lengths on the same girder, and magnetic force compensation is achieved by translating the upper and lower magnetic array with a certain longitudinal offset. A double-period undulator prototype has been developed by SARI. This paper describes the design, simulation, and measurement results of mechanical system.S. Xiang, H. Deng, J. Yang, S. Zhou, T. Zhen, W. Zhang, Y. Zhu, Y. Lei, Z. Jiang  Shanghai Advanced Research InstitutePaper: WEP49DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP49About:  Received: 04 Sep 2025 — Revised: 14 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 15 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP50Mockup assembly of an SRF module: spaceframe as tooling and structural support for highly HOM-damped cavities250To support the VSR cavities with five protruding waveguides, a space frame was engineered to serve a dual purpose: providing structural support and functioning as tooling during assembly. This space frame facilitates cavity rotation in the cleanroom, simplifying the installation of HOM loads and fundamental power coupler components. Designed specifically for the particular cavity geometry, the space frame has a diameter of about 1500 mm and provides axial and radial support for the cavity, along with its ancillaries, magnetic and thermal shields, and piping. A mock-up assembly was conducted to evaluate the design’s functionality, assessing key aspects such as rotation and railing performance, cavity support and alignment, and the mountability and stability of ancillary components.N. Wunderer, A. Frahm, D. Böhlick, F. Pflocksch, F. Glöckner, H. Plötz, N. Ohm, S. Wiese, V. Dürr, K. Schemmel, D. Wolk, M. Schuster  Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin für Materialien und EnergieA. Velez  Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin für Materialien und Energie, Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin für Materialien und Energie; TU Dortmund University, TU Dortmund UniversityJ. Knobloch  Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin für Materialien und Energie; University of Siegen, Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin für Materialien und Energie, University of SiegenPaper: WEP50DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP50About:  Received: 01 Sep 2025 — Revised: 12 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 13 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP51NMX neutron instrument installation in the bunker area at the European Spallation SourceThe European Spallation Source (ESS) is currently in the process of designing and installing 15 neutron beamlines, each aimed at supporting a diverse range of experimental techniques. These beamlines will provide scientists from various fields with unprecedented opportunities for groundbreaking research. The installation of the beamlines presents significant challenges, as both the infrastructure and the beamlines themselves are being planned and constructed concurrently, but at different stages. One of the most complex areas for beamline installation is the so-called "bunker area," which is located closest to the neutron source which is highly radioactive. From here, all instrument ports are radially distributed in close proximity to neighboring scientific instruments that host the neutron experimental stations. This poster aims to illustrate the installation process of the NMX beamline within the bunker area, highlighting the engineering challenges faced during the installation.R. Camilleri Lledo, D. Lundström, E. Oksanen, G. Aprigliano  European Spallation SourceCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP52Optical metrology of SOLEIL II prototype long focal bendable mirrorIn preparation for the SOLEIL storage ring upgrade, the SWING beamline has replaced its bendable vertically focusing optic with a state of the art mirror. Acceptance tests were conducted at SOLEIL’s Optical Metrology Laboratory. Driven by two stepper motors with absolute encoders, the mirror enables precise torque control and a wide range of elliptical shapes. This presentation will cover interferometric measurements, motor motion characterization, surface quality assessments, mirror shaping strategies, and calibration for beamline integration. We will detail the use of tiling and stitching methods on a Fizeau interferometer to characterize surfaces with slope errors below 0.1 µrad, crucial for next-generation synchrotron sources. The impact of vibrations and temperature variations on measurements will be discussed, along with mitigation techniques. We will also present topography results, statistical analyses, and the installation process, concluding with initial beamline performance results.C. Wozniak, C. Vascart, D. Dennetiere, J. Perez, T. Moreno  Synchrotron soleilCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP53PETRA IV: Frontend designNew frontends are required to upgrade the PETRA accelerator to the 4th generation. The design is based on the original design concept developed for the photon beamline frontends at PETRA III. The newly designed frontends aimed at using the same proven components and minimizing of the number of girder variations. In addition, a lot of the old components (complete girder) can be used for the new beamlines. A total of 36 new frontends are required for the PETRA IV project, which are divided into the types of 28 Frontends for single beamlines, 6 Frontends for 5 mrad canting and, 2 Frontends for 1.5 mrad canting. The frontends will be installed over four different experimental halls, so that the last part of the system has to be adapted accordingly. On the accelerator girder, the frontend is assembled as a complete string to minimize assembly times on the accelerator girder. Furthermore, the calibration of individual components prior to installation enables a substantial reduction in measurement and set-up times on the accelerator girder. A further benefit is that the entire assembly of the individual strings can be carried out in a cleanroom environment.B. Steiniger, H. Bienert, M. Sprung, N. von Bargen, M. Hesse  Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron DESYCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP54Precision by design: The eight-piece quadrupole method for high-precision pole tip placementThe 8-piece quadrupole method, developed and patented by the Advanced Photon Source (APS) for APS-Upgrade magnets, is a manufacturing and assembly technique in which magnet pole tips and core quarters are machined separately to standard machining tolerances and bolted together during assembly. The APS-U was able to avoid traditional methods of high precision machining to achieve high positional accuracy, which is costly, difficult and time consuming. By using standard machining tolerances and the 8-piece quadrupole method, magnets were assembled to precise mechanical tolerances, ensuring the resulting magnetic field met specification. This approach allowed mechanical assembly, rather than precise machining, to drive the magnetic field performance. The modular design allowed for fine adjustments, ensuring the pole tip and core could be manipulated to achieve the prescribed tolerance. As a result, APS-U production using the 8-piece method met the required quality standards.N. Bechtold  Advanced Photon Source, Argonne National LaboratoryA. Jain  Advanced Photon Source; Argonne National Laboratory, Advanced Photon Source, Argonne National LaboratoryM. Jaski  Argonne National Laboratory; Advanced Photon Source, Advanced Photon Source, Argonne National LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP55Progression of the development of a four-crystal monochromator for PETRA IV254The development of a four-crystal monochromator (4CM) represents a crucial step in advancing beamline instrumentation for PETRA IV, DESY’s upcoming ultralow-emittance synchrotron source. Conceived to fulfil the stringent requirements of fourth generation light sources, the 4CM as a device without high heat load should provide exceptional energy resolution, achieving a small energy bandwidth and stability while preserving beam quality. The poster presents the ongoing development of 4CM designed specifically for PETRA IV. Two different beamlines will be discussed and compared. Our approach focuses on optimizing the crystal arrangement, vibration control and precise alignment to achieve excellent energy resolution, band width selection and intensity. Utilizing silicon crystals in a channel-cut configuration, the monochromator ensures high mechanical stiffness and robust control, enabling stable operation over a wide energy range. In addition, the engineering challenges and solutions encountered during the design phase, including thermal management and mechanical stability, are outlined.J. Raabe, J. Rauß, D. Weschke, W. Roseker, M. Sprung, O. Seeck  Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron DESYPaper: WEP55DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP55About:  Received: 05 Sep 2025 — Revised: 18 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 18 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP56Progress of front ends at HALFHefei Advanced Light Facility (HALF) is a 4th generation synchrotron radiation facility building in Hefei, with a 2.2 GeV storage ring perimeter of 479.86 m and 40 straight sections. In phase I, 11 front ends will be installed, including 10 undulator front ends and 1 bending magnet front end. 10 undulator beamlines will be open to users, while the bending magnet will be used for machine study. The undulator front end will receive 17.3 kW/mrad2 of peak power density and 4.7 kW of the total power. These front ends adopt a common modular design, which is based on compatibility with various front ends. The difference lies in the selection of individual components and the variations in parameters. In this paper, the designs and the progress of HALF front ends are presented.M. Chen  Zhejiang Institute of Photoelectronics & Zhejiang Institute for Advanced Light SourceC. Wang  National Synchrotron Radiation LaboratoryJ. Chen, S. Wei, X. Du, Y. Peng  University of Science and Technology of China, National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory, National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory; University of Science and Technology of ChinaCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP57Stitching Fizeau interferometry for X-ray optics metrology at MAX IVPrecise metrology of synchrotron optics is essential for maintaining the performance of X-ray beamlines at diffraction-limited storage rings. We are developing a stitching Fizeau interferometer system designed to measure large synchrotron X-ray mirrors and gratings. Using a stitching approach, the system will provide full-aperture measurements of curved and flat surfaces, with sub-nanometre accuracy over lengths up to 0.75 m. The system will integrate a stable Fizeau interferometer with a motorized, multi-axis positioning platform, enabling automated scanning and acquisition across large optical surfaces presented sideways. Surface maps will be reconstructed from individual sub-aperture measurements using advanced algorithms, including using the PyLost software developed at ESRF. The design focuses on minimizing environmental noise, optical aberrations, and mechanical drift to ensure repeatable and reliable measurements. At MAX IV, the system will strengthen in-house capabilities in optical metrology. It will support the inspection of new mirror substrates before installation, the monitoring of ageing optics already in operation, and the optimization of mounting strategies.M. Lebugle, L. Pickworth, J. Selberg, M. Alcocer, M. Andersson, P. Sondhauss, J. Adell, J. González  MAX IV LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP58Structural design of the injection and extraction electrostatic septum of PREF257Proton Radiation Effects Facility (PREF) is a dedicated accelerator generating 10-60 MeV proton beams for studying space radiation impacts on satellites and optoelectronics. To achieve a compact and cost-effective synchrotron (circumference of 18 m), an electrostatic septum system was developed, delivering uniform fields of 72 kV/cm (injection) and 135 kV/cm (extraction) at 350 mm and 730 mm installation spacing, respectively, in a 1×10⁻⁸ Pa·m³/s vacuum .The system enables ±15 mm adjustment range for both the anode and high-voltage cathode with accuracy within 0.1 mm, while the use of adaptive high-voltage feed-in method ensures stable electrical contact and eliminates mechanical stress during conditioning. Considering the mechanical properties and the bending constraints of the cutting plate, an array of 0.1mm arched tungsten wire ribbons arranged with small spacing were adapted for the structural design. Lab tests confirm the design's superior compliance with physical requirements, and two years of operation demonstrate the devices' high stability and long-term reliability.Y. Pan, Y. Zheng, Y. Lang, L. Zhang, X. Xu, H. Lu, H. Niu, W. Chen  Institute of Modern PhysicsY. Cong, J. Zhang  Institute of Modern Physics, Chinese Academy of SciencesZ. Yao  Lanzhou UniversityPaper: WEP58DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP58About:  Received: 04 Sep 2025 — Revised: 15 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 15 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP59Succesfull repair of a S-Band CavityFor this poster presentation, I will present you the entire process for reconstructing and repairing of a defective S-band cavity. The repaired cavity will be used in an Experiment inside the Free Electron Laser (SwissFEL). In the final check we found an error after brazing and we decided to try to fix the cavity before we order new one to save time and costs. The cavity was cleanly separated in two parts and machined. The defective cup segments were replaced by new cups and the S-band Cavity was re-brazed. The repair was a complete success and the cavity can be used in operation.N. Strohmaier, R. Fortunati  Paul Scherrer InstituteCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP60Survey and alignment of beamlines for Advanced Photon Source Upgrade261As part of the Advanced Photon Source Upgrade (APS-U) Project, all 72 beamlines needed to undergo alignment to the new storage ring installation. Prior to beginning the alignment efforts, beamline geometry files were to identify the location of components with respect to the beam source. For new beamline installations, the remaining process was simpler. New components were fiducialized in a lab, along with their support tables. Tables were then installed and aligned to the beamline geometry configuration and a final report was generated for approval. However, for existing beamlines, the process was more intricate. Fiducial records dating back to 1996 were used to generate fiducial files. However, some information was lost over the years. In response, new techniques were implemented to fiducialize components missing records in-situ to avoid removing components from the beamline. Existing component positions were measured with respect to the new source, then realigned. A report of pre-alignment and a report of realignment were generated for approval. All beamlines have undergone realignment in one year timeline and successfully gone through commissioning process.A. Khan, J. Knopp, O. Schmidt  Advanced Photon SourceM. Erdmann  Argonne National LaboratoryPaper: WEP60DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP60About:  Received: 04 Sep 2025 — Revised: 15 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 16 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP62The girder system prototype for the ALBA II storage ring263ALBA Synchrotron is developing an upgrade project for transforming its accelerator into a diffraction limited storage ring, with twenty-fold reduction of the emittance. The upgrade will be executed before the end of the decade, profiting at maximum all existing infrastructures, as the tunnel, and renewing SR elements such as magnets, vacuum chambers and girders. This paper presents the design status of the new girder system required for supporting the new magnets array of the Alba II lattice, which more than doubles in quantity. Design requirements include positioning accuracy between adjacent magnets of 50 µm, to enable repositioning the magnets due to long term deformation of the slab, ensuring the vibrational stability of the components on top and modular construction to minimize the installation time, dividing each of the 16 arcs into modules with all the subsystems preassembled, providing easiness in the assembly, transportation and final installation. A dedicated project was awarded to build prototypes for ALBA II machine. Two girder prototypes are currently being constructed in order to check their full functionality and are expected to be tested by the end of this year.J. Boyer  ALBA Synchrotron Light Source, ALBA Synchrotron (Spain)L. Ribó Mor, N. Gonzalez, B. de Abreu Francisco, P. Salmeron Roma, C. Colldelram  ALBA Synchrotron (Spain)Paper: WEP62DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP62About:  Received: 05 Sep 2025 — Revised: 16 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 16 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP63Thermal analysis of front end vacuum components & mirror for IVU24 beamline at the Korea-4GSRCurrently under construction in Ochang, Chungcheongbuk-do, Korea-4GSR is a 4GeV, 4th Generation Synchrotron Light Source. The front end is being designed to pass the powerful synchrotron radiation generated by the insertion device. High heat load components have hence been customized to meet the requirements of beamline users and account for the thermomechanical limits of materials. In the analysis of the 4GSR beamline device, the values of IVU24, which has the largest beam intensity, were used, and the specifications for securing the safety of the front end device were determined. In the case of devices that come into direct contact with the beam, the flow rate and cooling passage structure were determined so that the convection coefficient could be increased under conditions that did not cause significant vibration. And cooling system optimization analysis was conducted to minimize the slope error of the mirror, and as a result, partial cooling according to the footprint size resulted in the best slope error value. In this paper, we describe the characteristics and analysis results of the front end and mirror.S. Kim, H. Choi, J. Kim, J. Park, K. Kim, Y. Yun  Pohang Accelerator LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP64Thermal fatigue tests on CuCrZr photon shutters267The CuCrZr alloy has emerged as a preferred material for thermal absorbers in synchrotron light sources, bal-ancing mechanical strength, thermal conductivity, and cost-effectiveness. However, thermal fatigue design criteria for CuCrZr components under high-intensity X-ray beam exposure are not well established. This gap exists due to a lack of experimental data from test specimens subjected to several thousand cycles of localized high temperatures exceeding 300 °C. To address this gap, thermal fatigue tests were conducted on three CuCrZr photon shutters at the NSLS-II instrumentation front end. The experimental setup, receiving an X-ray beam from an undulator, provided a peak power density ranging from 19.95 W/mm² to 38.80 W/mm² on the photon shutters’ surfaces. Within the beam footprints, calculated peak temperatures ranged from 326.8 °C to 416.5 °C. This paper presents the experimental setup, the test results, and finite element analyses of the thermomechanical response of the photon shutters. Based on both experimental and analytical findings, thermal design guidelines are proposed for CuCrZr absorbers, masks, and photon shutters.S. Sharma, F. DePaola, G. Wang, J. Grandy, M. Johanson, R. Faussete, R. Todd  Brookhaven National LaboratoryPaper: WEP64DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP64About:  Received: 05 Sep 2025 — Revised: 14 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 15 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP65Thermal stability of the Diamond storage ring271This presentation explores the thermal stability of the Diamond storage ring, highlighting significant air temperature variations both spatially and temporally. To monitor component temperatures, 34 Pt1000 temperature sensors have been installed across three girders within the same cell. Observations indicate a 0.5°C increase in girder temperature during machine startup, primarily due to a rise in magnet temperature of up to 2.5°C when powered, while beam presence has minimal impact on machine temperature. This data has been instrumental in informing the development and analysis models for Diamond-II. Additionally, sensors installed on two Diamond EBPM columns provide targeted analysis to enhance Diamond-II beam stability.E. Rippin  Diamond Light SourcePaper: WEP65DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP65About:  Received: 05 Sep 2025 — Revised: 11 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 15 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP66Upgrade tuning system 3rd harmonic cavity SLS 2.0As part of the SLS2.0 upgrade, it was foreseen to upgrade the tuning system of the 3rd harmonic cavity of the storage ring. The complete tuning system is installed in an isolation vacuum and has direct contact to a 4 Kelvin source, which means all components have to perform in cryogenic conditions. The existing system comprised of a standard stepper motor and a coated spindle with two hard-stops at both ends. The new installed tuning system offers now better adapted stepper motor including temperature sensor and position encoder. The spindle was also changed to a roller-bearing system. To design the mechanical setup we analyzed the required forces which are required to deform the superconducting Niobium-coated copper cavities. The torque of the motor is multiplied by a lever-arm system and the pitch of the roller-bearing. Based on this analysis, we designed and purchased the complete mechanism which was then successfully installed and integrated into the SLS2.0 environment. On the poster I will lay out the analysis, findings and solutions to share it with the community with similar systems.R. Fortunati, A. Citterio, M. Schneider, M. Dällenbach, R. Rotundo  Paul Scherrer InstituteCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP67Vibration-based condition monitoring of a lead screw in the mirror positioning unit on the CIRI beamlineA newly constructed infrared (CIRI) beamline at the SOLARIS National Synchrotron Radiation Centre features a front-end mirror positioning system capable of inserting the mirror directly into the storage ring vacuum chamber. The positioning mechanism utilizes a lead screw drive, which recently experienced a mechanical failure during operation. To enhance reliability and enable early fault detection, a vibration-based condition monitoring strategy is being implemented. The approach employs an industrial accelerometer mounted on the mirror assembly to measure vibration signals during insertion and extraction cycles. These signals are analysed to assess the operational condition of the lead screw and to identify early indicators of mechanical degradation, supporting predictive maintenance and reducing the risk of unexpected failures. The presentation will cover the concept, implementation, and results obtained from vibration-based monitoring, with particular emphasis on improving system reliability.M. Piszak  SOLARIS National Synchrotron Radiation CentreCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP68Development of a circular flexure bender for a long, elliptically bent X-ray mirror275Mechanical benders are classical instruments for shaping X-ray mirror surfaces with high precision. A circular flexure bender has been developed at SSRF (Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility) for a 1200 mm-long hard X-ray mirror with an effective optical length of 1000 mm. Elliptical bending in the tangential direction is achieved using two actuators equipped with high-precision load cells, transmitting torque through circular flexure hinges at both ends of the mirror. The mirror is oriented to reflect vertically and faces upward, requiring consideration of gravitational deformation. Slope profilometry measurements using a Long Trace Profiler (LTP) indicate a total slope error of 0.45 µrad RMS, with mechanical error compensating gravity limited to 70 nrad. A liquid-metal-bath water cooling method is integrated to manage thermal loads. Finite element analysis (FEA) is conducted to evaluate thermally induced deformation, calculated at 0.2 µrad RMS and corrected to 33 nrad, and to optimize the flexure hinge design. The developed system provides stable, high-precision elliptical bending for long X-ray mirrors and is well adapted for advanced synchrotron radiation beamlines.Z. Ren, N. Wang, J. Zhang, Y. He, N. Tian, J. Chen, S. Xue, W. Zhu  Shanghai Advanced Research InstitutePaper: WEP68DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP68About:  Received: 03 Sep 2025 — Revised: 14 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 15 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP69Mechanical aspects of a magnetic measurement setup for superconducting undulators at European XFELThe European XFEL is developing superconducting undulators (SCUs) and planning their implementation with the goal of generating extremely hard X-rays with energies exceeding 40 keV. A key component for the development and quality assurance of SCU coils is SUNDAE1, a vertical liquid helium bath test stand designed for training SCU coils and measuring their magnetic field profiles. This contribution presents the mechanical design and commissioning of a sledge equipped with Hall probes that travel along precisely machined rails, as well as a high-resolution linear motion system that guides the sledge via a rod—both developed specifically for accurate magnetic field profile measurements.P. Ziolkowski, A. Nandawadekar, A. Doosti, E. Fioresi  European X-Ray Free-Electron LaserS. Casalbuoni, T. Schmidt  European XFEL GmbH, European X-Ray Free-Electron LaserCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP70Optimization of a bending mirror system for dynamic focusingIn this paper, we present the preliminary development and optimization of a bending mirror system conducted as a preparatory study for the Shenzhen Superconducting Soft X-ray Free-Electron Laser (S3FEL). A prototype of the dynamic bending system is fabricated for experimental validation. It is designed to bend a flat mirror to 500 m radius of curvature (360 m RoC experimentally achieved eventually). Surface quality of the mirror before and after then bending are characterized in a cleanroom to minimize environmental disturbances. The bending system was mounted on the granite base of a long-trace profiler (LTP) for high-precision metrology. Two technical approaches are explored on this system. The first involved a coarse force estimation method based on analytical bending formulas, combined with manual fine tuning. The second employed a surrogate model constructed through transfer learning-based neural networks to enable rapid prediction and inverse optimization of actuator forces. Experimental evaluations of both approaches confirm the system’s capability to achieve large-range curvature modulation while maintaining sub-microradian slope precision.M. Wu, Q. Zhu, Z. Wen, J. Luo, Y. Liang, Q. Li  Institute of Advanced Science Facilities, Shenzhen, Institute of Advanced Light Source Facilities ShenzhenB. Sun  Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, State Key Laboratory of Chemical Reaction DynamicsW. Zhang  Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, State Key Laboratory of Chemical Reaction Dynamics, Institute of Advanced Light Source Facilities ShenzhenCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP71Removal and installation plans for the SOLEIL II upgrade279The SOLEIL synchrotron, which has been open to the scientific community since 2008, will benefit from an upgrade aimed at improving the brilliance, coherence, and flux of the X-ray beam delivered. This will make it possible to follow biological processes or the functioning of devices operating at sub-millisecond timescales at nanometric resolution, while sharply reducing the detection limit for trace elements. The accelerators (booster and storage ring) will be completely renewed, while the existing tunnels. In addition, six beamlines will be relocated to other places in the experiment hall. A 24-month "dark period" is planned to bring the SOLEIL II program to a successful conclusion. This article presents the strategic plans being developed for dismantling the current accelerators, installing the upgraded components of the new accelerators (girders, magnets, vacuum chambers, electrical and fluid servitudes), and move the six beamlines (radiation protection hutchs and equipments). Prioritizing a cost-effective and time-efficient approach, we began planning by focusing on optimizing spaces and equipment movements necessary for the upgrade process.G. Baranton, A. Carcy, C. De Oliveira, F. Trias, N. Bechu  Synchrotron soleilPaper: WEP71DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-MEDSI2025-WEP71About:  Received: 05 Sep 2025 — Revised: 16 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 17 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 19 Sep 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


WEP72Optimized design of a mechanical clamping device for surface shape testingClamping-induced deformation of the double-crystal monochromator (DCM) is a critical issue that urgently requires resolution. Due to challenges posed by high-radiation and ultra-high-vacuum environments, current DCM clamping devices rely heavily on computer simulations and lack support from measured data. To address this problem, we have developed a real-time clamping force acquisition device to measure surface shape changes of optical components under different clamping forces. In the offline state, interferometry is used to quantify relationships between clamping force and surface peak-to-valley (PV) as well as root mean square (RMS) values. In the online state, 2D detectors and orthogonal analyzer crystals enable direct observation of Dumond diagrams of the crystal under test, achieving qualitative characterization of surface shapes. This study resolved the issue of uneven clamping force through structural improvements and established quantitative correlations between clamping force and surface shape changes.Z. Li, L. Xue, S. Si, X. Li  Shanghai Advanced Research InstituteCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote





